.TH Plumber-TCP-Module 1 "Nov 16 2017" "Plumber Project Contributors" "Plumber Software Infrastructure"
.SH NAME
tcp_pipe - The Plumber TCP IO Module
.SH SYNOPSIS
insmod("
.B tcp_pipe
[
.B --slave
]
.I port_id
")
.br
insmod("
.B tcp_pipe
.I module_identifer_to_master
")
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TCP IO module actually handles the IO event on TCP ports. It can be instantiated
into multiple module instances and one master TCP module for each port. 
The master TCP module instance uses the identifer
.I pipe.tcp.port_<port_id>.
.R For example,
.br
.ft B
	pipe.tcp.port_80
.ft R
.br
for the master module instance listening to the 80 TCP port.
.br
For the multi-threaded event loop case, the identifer
.I pipe.tcp.port_<port_id>$<thread_id> 
is used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --slave
The slave mode, which means the module do not mark itself as the event accepting module instance.
Thus other module, for example, TLS module, can use this TCP module instance as the transportation 
layer implementation.
.SH VARIABLES
.TP
.B pipe.tcp.port_<port>.port
Get or set which port the module instance should be listening to. (Note: It's possible the
port property changed after the module instance is initialize, but this is not recommended)
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tcp.port_<port>.ttl
Get or set the maximum time to live for an inactive TCP connection. If a TCP connection do not
have data avaiable longer than the time TTL property specify, the connection will be closed automatically.
Event the connection with persistent flag can be affected by this flag.
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tcp.port_<port>.ttl
Get or set the maximum size of the TCP connection pool, this value limits the maximum number
of connection can be handled by this module.
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tcp.port_<port>.event_size
Get or set the size of the event buffer used by the connection pool.
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tcp.port_<port>.event_timeout
Get or set the maximum amount of time the TCP module wait for a single event.
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tcp.port_<port>.backlog
Get or set the TCP backlog size
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tcp.port_<port>.ipv6
Get or set if the module allows IPv6 Connections. 0 = disabled, 1 = enabled. The default value is disabled
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tcp.port_<port>.reuseaddr
Get or set if we append SO_REUSEADDR flag to the socket flags.
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tcp.port_<port>.bindaddr
Get or set the address string used as the binding address
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tcp.port_<port>.nforks (Read-Only)
Get the number of parallel event loop running on this port

.SH SEE ALSO
pscript, plumber-tls-module, plumber-mempipe-module, plumber-pssm

.SH AUTHORS
Plumber Project contributors: see https://raw.githubusercontent.com/38/plumber/master/CONTRIBUTORS for details
.SH LICENSE
The entire Plumber Project is under 2-clause BSD license, see https://raw.githubusercontent.com/38/plumber/master/LICENSE for details


