.TH Plumber-TLS-Module 1 "Nov 16 2017" "Plumber Project Contributors" "Plumber Software Infrastructure"
.SH NAME
tls_pipe - The Plumber TLS IO Module
.SH SYNOPSIS
insmod("
.B tls_pipe 
[
.B cert=
.I certificate-path
] [
.B key=
.I key-path
]
.I transprotation-layer-module-identifer
")
.SH DESCRIPTION
This IO module implements the TLS (Transportantion Layer Security) communication
channel. The transportation layer module is usually a TCP module instance in the
slave mode. The module identifer for TLS module instance is
.I pipe.tls.<transportation-layer-identifer>
For example, the TLS module on 433 TCP port can be referred by:
.br
.ft B
	pipe.tls.pipe.tcp.port_80
.ft R
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B cert=<certificate-path>
Set the certificate path. It should be a PEM file on the disk.
.TP
.B key=<key-path>
Set the key path. It should be a PEM file on the disk.
.SH VARIABLE
.TP
.B pipe.tls.<trans-layer>.async_write
Get or set if the module supports asynchronous write.
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tls.<trans-layer>.ssl2
Get or set if the module should support SSLv2. The recommended value is 0, and this may be enabled
for compatibility considerations.
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tls.<trans-layer>.ssl3
Get or set if the module should support SSLv3. Similar to ssl2 option, this should be disabled for most of the case.
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tls.<trans-layer>.tls1
Get or set if the module should support TLSv1.0.
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tls.<trans-layer>.tls1_1
Get or set if the module should support TLSv1.1.
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tls.<trans-layer>.tls1_2
Get or set if the module should support TLSv1.2.
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tls.<trans-layer>.cipher
Get or set the cipher configuration used by this module. The format of the cipher string
can be found in the OpenSSL documentation.
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tls.<trans-layer>.extra_cert_chain
Get or set the extra ceritificate in the certificate chain. This is used when the TLS certificate is 
signed by a non-root authority. Thus the trust chain should be provided in this way.
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tls.<trans-layer>.dhparam
The parameter file used by Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange (DHE) algorithm. This variable only meaningful when
the DHE algorithm is enabled.
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tls.<trans-layer>.ecdh_curve
The name of the curve used by Elliptic-curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH) algorithm. 
It can be set to auto, means the framework should determine which curve should be used.
.br
.TP
.B pipe.tls.<trans-layer>.alpn_protos
Get or set the protocols supported by Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN). The list should be
space seperated name of protocols. The supported protocols are
.br
.ft B
	h2
.br
	http/1.1
.br
	spdy/1
.br
	spdy/2
.br
	spdy/3
.ft R

.SH SEE ALSO
pscript, plumber-tcp-module, plumber-mempipe-module, plumber-pssm

.SH AUTHORS
Plumber Project contributors: see https://raw.githubusercontent.com/38/plumber/master/CONTRIBUTORS for details
.SH LICENSE
The entire Plumber Project is under 2-clause BSD license, see https://raw.githubusercontent.com/38/plumber/master/LICENSE for details


